modules/install/pages/rhel-suse-install-intro.adoc, before:

= Red Hat and CentOS Installation

[abstract]
Couchbase Server supports Red Hat (RHEL) and RHEL-based operating systems such as CentOS.

Before you start with the installation, ensure that dependency checking tool [.cmd]`pkgconfig` is installed.
The Couchbase Server package requires this package to verify certain package dependencies have been met.

== Check OpenSSL Dependency

The Couchbase Server RPM performs dependency checks using `pkgconfig` for RHEL.
Verify that `pkgconfig` is installed, and install it if necessary:

[source,bash]
----
sudo yum install -y pkgconfig
----

Upon successful installation, the following output appears:

----
Loaded plugins .... Installed: pkgconfig.x86_64 1:0.21-2.el5 Complete!
----

IMPORTANT: Please ensure that you are running OpenSSL v1.0.1g or higher.
On Monday, April 7th, 2014, an OpenSSL vulnerability was disclosed which has been called one of the worst security holes in recent internet history.
The bug, called the Heartbleed bug, was introduced in OpenSSL version 1.0.1.
It has been in the wild since March of 2012 and is patched with OpenSSL version 1.0.1g released on April 7th, 2014.
The problem, tagged CVE-2014-0160, is described in detail in this https://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2014-0160[NIST article^].

For CentOS systems, you can query the version of the OpenSSL package installed on your system by typing:

[source,bash]
----
 rpm -q -a | grep "openssl"
----

You should receive output that looks like this:

----
openssl-1.0.1e-16.el6_5.7.x86_64
----

If you are on one of the supported distributions, ensure that your OpenSSL version is up-to-date.
If your distribution is not supported anymore, it is highly recommended that you transition to a supported operating system due to this bug's severity.

== Installing Using [.cmd]`rpm`

Install Couchbase Server on RHEL using the [.cmd]`rpm` command-line tool with the downloaded RPM package.

Only 64-bit systems are supported.
See xref:install-platforms.adoc[Supported Operating Systems] for details.

*Disable Transparent Huge Pages (THP)*

RHEL6 and other newer Linux distributions are known to have Transparent Huge Pages (THP) feature enabled by default.
THP can cause issues in database software, including Couchbase Server.
THP can cause nodes to lose cluster heartbeats, resulting in erroneous automatic fail overs.
xref:thp-disable.adoc[Disabling Transparent Huge Pages (THP)] prior to installing Couchbase Server is strongly encouraged.

*Complete the Installation*

You must be logged in as `root` (superuser) or use the [.cmd]`sudo` command to complete the installation.
Use the following command to install the Couchbase Server package:

[source,bash]
----
rpm --install couchbase-server-version.rpm
----

where [.var]`version` is the version number of the downloaded package.

After the [.cmd]`rpm` command completes, the Couchbase Server service starts automatically.
It is configured to start automatically under OS runlevels 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Refer to the Red Hat RPM documentation for more information about installing packages using RPM.

After installation is completed, the installation process displays a message similar to the following:

----
    Minimum RAM required : 4 GB
    System RAM configured : 8174464 kilobytes
    Minimum number of processors required :  4 cores
    Number of processors on the system : 4 cores


    Starting couchbase-server[ OK ]

    You have successfully installed Couchbase Server.
    Browse to http://host_name:8091/ to configure your server.
    Refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.

    Update your firewall configuration
    to allow connections to the following ports:

    11211, 11210, 11209, 4369, 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.


    By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement.
    See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.
----

After the installation is completed, use the [.cmd]`service` command to manage the Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status.
Refer to the Ubuntu documentation for instructions.

To perform the initial Couchbase Server setup, open a web browser and access the Couchbase Web Console.

[#rh-nonroot-nonsudo-]
== Installing as non-root, non-sudo

Installing on RHEL as a non-root, non-sudo user on a single machine.

// Removing the note as this has been verified by QE to be production ready
// <note type="important">This installation method is intended only for development purposes and is
// not supported in production.</note>

A non-sudo, non-root installation still runs Couchbase Server and all Couchbase command-line tools.

. After downloading the Couchbase Server RPM, go to the directory where it is located and extract it:
+
[source,bash]
----
rpm2cpio couchbase-server-enterprise_version.rpm | cpio --extract --make-directories --no-absolute-filenames
----
+
In the directory where the files were extracted, the `opt` and `etc` sub-directories are available.

. After you extract the Couchbase Server installation files, go to the sub-directory:
+
[source,bash]
----
cd opt/couchbase
----

. Run the following script to relocate the Couchbase Server installation to the present working directory (PWD):
+
[source,bash]
----
./bin/install/reloc.sh `pwd`
----
+
This enables you to continue the installation as a non-root, non-sudo user.

. To run the server, use
+
[source,bash]
----
./bin/couchbase-server \-- -noinput -detached
----

. To stop the server, use
+
[source,bash]
----
./bin/couchbase-server -k
----

== Installing using [.cmd]`yum`

This installation uses a package management system.

To install on RHEL/CentOS version 6 or 7 using [.cmd]`yum`:

. Download and install the appropriate meta package from the https://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-5-x86_64.rpm[package download location^].
This will install the package source and the Couchbase public keys:
+
[source,bash]
----
curl -O http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-5-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -i couchbase-release-1.0-5-x86_64.rpm
----

. Proceed with installing the actual Couchbase Server package:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo yum update
----
+
Then:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo yum install couchbase-server
----
+
Or:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo yum install couchbase-server-community
----

== About Max Process Limits

On Red Hat and CentOS systems, it is recommended that you increase the maximum process limits for Couchbase.

To set the process limits, create a `.conf` file in the `/etc/security/limits.d` directory (such as `91-couchbase.conf`), and add the following values:

[source,console]
----
couchbase soft nproc 4096
couchbase hard nproc 16384
----

Commit message:

Improve non-root steps
I followed the non-root instructions and found them to be a little confusing, my issue was mainly that it wasn't clear that when I perform the cpio (step 1) the directory I am in is the directory where the install will reside, reading the steps as they are lead me to think that I could cpio in the download directory and then direct the install to anywhere (the reloc.sh step)

It appeared that the reloc.sh script would move the extracted files to anywhere I want, but it doesn't, there seemed to be no choice other than "reloc.sh pwd", any other path and it failed.

So i've added what I think are some changes to help clarify that the download directory is the final installation directory as well.

modules/install/pages/rhel-suse-install-intro.adoc, after:

= Red Hat and CentOS Installation

[abstract]
Couchbase Server supports Red Hat (RHEL) and RHEL-based operating systems such as CentOS.

Before you start with the installation, ensure that dependency checking tool [.cmd]`pkgconfig` is installed.
The Couchbase Server package requires this package to verify certain package dependencies have been met.

== Check OpenSSL Dependency

The Couchbase Server RPM performs dependency checks using `pkgconfig` for RHEL.
Verify that `pkgconfig` is installed, and install it if necessary:

[source,bash]
----
sudo yum install -y pkgconfig
----

Upon successful installation, the following output appears:

----
Loaded plugins .... Installed: pkgconfig.x86_64 1:0.21-2.el5 Complete!
----

IMPORTANT: Please ensure that you are running OpenSSL v1.0.1g or higher.
On Monday, April 7th, 2014, an OpenSSL vulnerability was disclosed which has been called one of the worst security holes in recent internet history.
The bug, called the Heartbleed bug, was introduced in OpenSSL version 1.0.1.
It has been in the wild since March of 2012 and is patched with OpenSSL version 1.0.1g released on April 7th, 2014.
The problem, tagged CVE-2014-0160, is described in detail in this https://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2014-0160[NIST article^].

For CentOS systems, you can query the version of the OpenSSL package installed on your system by typing:

[source,bash]
----
 rpm -q -a | grep "openssl"
----

You should receive output that looks like this:

----
openssl-1.0.1e-16.el6_5.7.x86_64
----

If you are on one of the supported distributions, ensure that your OpenSSL version is up-to-date.
If your distribution is not supported anymore, it is highly recommended that you transition to a supported operating system due to this bug's severity.

== Installing Using [.cmd]`rpm`

Install Couchbase Server on RHEL using the [.cmd]`rpm` command-line tool with the downloaded RPM package.

Only 64-bit systems are supported.
See xref:install-platforms.adoc[Supported Operating Systems] for details.

*Disable Transparent Huge Pages (THP)*

RHEL6 and other newer Linux distributions are known to have Transparent Huge Pages (THP) feature enabled by default.
THP can cause issues in database software, including Couchbase Server.
THP can cause nodes to lose cluster heartbeats, resulting in erroneous automatic fail overs.
xref:thp-disable.adoc[Disabling Transparent Huge Pages (THP)] prior to installing Couchbase Server is strongly encouraged.

*Complete the Installation*

You must be logged in as `root` (superuser) or use the [.cmd]`sudo` command to complete the installation.
Use the following command to install the Couchbase Server package:

[source,bash]
----
rpm --install couchbase-server-version.rpm
----

where [.var]`version` is the version number of the downloaded package.

After the [.cmd]`rpm` command completes, the Couchbase Server service starts automatically.
It is configured to start automatically under OS runlevels 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Refer to the Red Hat RPM documentation for more information about installing packages using RPM.

After installation is completed, the installation process displays a message similar to the following:

----
    Minimum RAM required : 4 GB
    System RAM configured : 8174464 kilobytes
    Minimum number of processors required :  4 cores
    Number of processors on the system : 4 cores


    Starting couchbase-server[ OK ]

    You have successfully installed Couchbase Server.
    Browse to http://host_name:8091/ to configure your server.
    Refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.

    Update your firewall configuration
    to allow connections to the following ports:

    11211, 11210, 11209, 4369, 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.


    By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement.
    See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.
----

After the installation is completed, use the [.cmd]`service` command to manage the Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status.
Refer to the Ubuntu documentation for instructions.

To perform the initial Couchbase Server setup, open a web browser and access the Couchbase Web Console.

[#rh-nonroot-nonsudo-]
== Installing as non-root, non-sudo

Installing on RHEL as a non-root, non-sudo user on a single machine.

// Removing the note as this has been verified by QE to be production ready
// <note type="important">This installation method is intended only for development purposes and is
// not supported in production.</note>

A non-sudo, non-root installation still runs Couchbase Server and all Couchbase command-line tools.

. Place the Couchbase Server RPM into a directory where Couchbase Server is to be installed.
. Go to that directory and extract the RPM:
+
[source,bash]
----
cd /home/me/couchbase-non-root/
rpm2cpio couchbase-server-enterprise_version.rpm | cpio --extract --make-directories --no-absolute-filenames
----
+
In the directory where the files were extracted, the `opt` and `etc` sub-directories are now available.

. After you extract the Couchbase Server installation files, go to the sub-directory:
+
[source,bash]
----
cd opt/couchbase
----

. Run the following script to complete the non-root Couchbase Server installation:
+
[source,bash]
----
./bin/install/reloc.sh `pwd`
----
+
This enables you to continue the installation as a non-root, non-sudo user.

. To run the server, use
+
[source,bash]
----
./bin/couchbase-server \-- -noinput -detached
----

. To stop the server, use
+
[source,bash]
----
./bin/couchbase-server -k
----

== Installing using [.cmd]`yum`

This installation uses a package management system.

To install on RHEL/CentOS version 6 or 7 using [.cmd]`yum`:

. Download and install the appropriate meta package from the https://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-5-x86_64.rpm[package download location^].
This will install the package source and the Couchbase public keys:
+
[source,bash]
----
curl -O http://packages.couchbase.com/releases/couchbase-release/couchbase-release-1.0-5-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -i couchbase-release-1.0-5-x86_64.rpm
----

. Proceed with installing the actual Couchbase Server package:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo yum update
----
+
Then:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo yum install couchbase-server
----
+
Or:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo yum install couchbase-server-community
----

== About Max Process Limits

On Red Hat and CentOS systems, it is recommended that you increase the maximum process limits for Couchbase.

To set the process limits, create a `.conf` file in the `/etc/security/limits.d` directory (such as `91-couchbase.conf`), and add the following values:

[source,console]
----
couchbase soft nproc 4096
couchbase hard nproc 16384
----
